today we're going to look at how you can
get started with Monday sales CRM a CRM
that your sales team will actually want
to use Monday sales CRM is a fully
customizable dedicated sales platform
that requires absolutely no coding you
can view all of your leads customer
information Communications deal status
all in one centralized place that way
nothing slips through the cracks you can
even analyze your sales processes using
real-time data within fully customizable
dashboards basically if you're a
business owner or on a sales team sales
CRM helps you manage the entire sales
cycle in this video I partnered with
Monday sales CRM to show you how you can
use it end to end all the way from
getting a new lead all the way through
closing that deal let's get started with
how you can even get Monday sales CRM to
get started with Monday sales CRM head
to the following website you could click
on the card in the top right hand corner
and I've also included a link Down Below
in the description using this link gives
you an extended 30-day trial once you
land on this website click on the button
that says get started and you don't have
to provide any payment information once
you finish signing up for Monday sales
CRM you'll land here on the home screen
in the top leftand corner you can see
that we're currently in Monday sales CRM
in the top leftand Corner if you have
multiple monday.com products when you
click on the app launcher here you'll
see all of your different installed
products I also happen to have Work
Management if you're interested in
learning more about how you can use Work
Management in your organization be sure
to check out the video down below in the
description over here I'll click out of
this right down below you'll see see
that I have a workspace titled CRM and
within this workspace we have a number
of different boards I also have a sales
dashboard and at the very bottom there's
also a getting started document now I
want to track new franchises for the
Kevin cookie company and I think CRM
will be perfect for that over on the
right hand side I'll click on the three
dots and here I can rename this
workspace so let me remove CRM and I'll
type in Kevin cookie company
franchises also I will click on the
three dots and I can also change the
icon maybe choose a color that stands
out just a little bit more let me go
this red color that really does stand
out now I was recently at a cookie
convention and yes they are amazing you
get to sample lots of cookies but best
of all I also met lots of different
potential franchisees or you could also
refer to them as leads and I want to
track all of them with CRM over on the
Le hand side I have a board titled leads
let's click into to that within leads
you can add new potential customers or
in my case new franchisees for the Kevin
Cookie Company basically people who want
to open a location of the Kevin cookie
company and they'll pay me money to do
that like I've always said there is
money in the cookie business now there
are a few different ways that you can
add a new lead you could manually add a
new lead you could simply click on this
button right up above or you could type
directly into the table you can also
have a customer proactively reach out
via a for that let's say you could put
on your website right up on top you
could click on for right down below you
can also click on this drop down on the
new lead button and you can bulk import
New Leads let's say from a spreadsheet
right up on top you can also integrate
with third-party providers to get leads
into monday.com so again there are lots
of different ways to add leads to start
out I just want to manually add a lead
so over here I'll click on this button
titled new lead this is now added a new
lead or row to my table down below and
right here in the First Column I could
type in a name for the lead her name was
Ginger Snap very friendly lady and she
seemed very serious about opening up a
location of the Kevin Cookie Company in
the next column I can set the status and
when I click on that I have all these
different options so once I contact her
I can select this or once I qualify her
here I could select this option down at
the very bottom I can also edit all
these different labels to match my needs
but for now I'm okay with the defaults
so here I'll select new lead in the next
column I have the option to move Ginger
to contacts but I haven't yet qualified
her so for now I'm going to leave her in
leads if we scroll over to the right
that exposes a few more columns over
here I could enter in the email address
I could type in her title she was fairly
high within her organization and over
here I'll type in the company she works
with United cookies one of the leaders
in the cookie industry and lastly I can
also type in her phone number now one of
the great things about this view is I
can completely customize what it looks
like say for instance you'd prefer to
see the phone number before company I
can simply press and hold on this column
and here I'll move it before company and
there we have it now I would also like
to include some notes or comments
related to this lead that way the sales
team knows that she was very serious
right up on top I'll click on this plus
icon and here I have the option to add
more columns here we see all of the
different core CRM columns like the
status or create a contact over here I
could also turn it on so I can assign an
owner to this lead and here if I scroll
down we also have the option of location
and also comments and in a moment I'll
select comments but first let's also
look at more columns and here you see
all the other column types that you can
add to this table so you can truly make
this view your own here I'll go back to
cor CRM and let me add comments this has
now added a new column over over on the
right hand side with lead comments here
I'll click into Ginger's row and let me
type in the comment again she was very
excited about launching a new location
and she wanted to chat soon I'll make
sure to capture that information and
then I could click out of that comment
now that I've added a lead you can also
group your leads right up on top this
group is currently referred to as new
leads but here if I click into that I
can also change it now these are all the
different leads that I met at the cookie
convention so I'll make sure to call
that out up above so I have some context
of how I met these different leads down
below I can also add another new group
I'll click on that and that adds yet
another new table so maybe I want a
table to track all the different leads
from our website so I'll make sure to
call that group website no of course
this table down at the very bottom is
just a little bit bare and also empty I
want potential leads to be able to reach
out via our website up on top I think
the perfect way to do that is to add a
form to the Kevin cookie company.com
site so right up here I'll I'll click on
this this now opens up a form that I can
place on my website or that I can share
on social media and down below I can see
all these different form questions and
one thing you might notice is each one
of these questions corresponds with one
of the columns in the table this way if
a lead comes in and they fill in their
name they fill in their email address
that information will feed directly into
my table so that'll make it really easy
to capture this information but one
thing you might notice here is there's
also the question about
status and I don't want a new lead to
fill this information out so I need to
make a few modifications to this form
right up on top let's click on edit form
this now opens up a window where I can
completely customize what this form
looks like right up on top I can upload
a logo over on the right hand side I
could also add a background image or
adjust the color I could change the
layout the typography right down here I
want to modify the title of this form
I'll type in Kevin cookie company
franchise interest forum and right down
below I can also type in a description
and here I can see all the different
questions on the Forum now I wanted to
hide the status question from potential
leads so I'll click on that and right
down here I can click on this icon and
that'll hide the question I think all
these other questions look good so I'll
will leave them as is right up on top
let's click into customize and here we
have a few other options you can
customize the welcome screen the thank
you screen and down at the very bottom
also the monday.com settings and when I
click on that I can configure what group
all these responses should go into and
remember we created a group for website
so here I'll select that now I think all
these other settings look good so up on
top I'll click on publish and once it
publishes it over here I can now copy
the link I'll click on copy link and I
can now link to that from the Kevin
cookie company.com website in the top
right hand corner I'll now close out of
this View and over on the left- hand
side let's go back to the main table
back on the main table look at that I've
already gotten five new leads from that
Forum that forum is really paying off
now of course I want to start reaching
out to some of these new leads to see if
I can start pushing them down the sales
pipeline but to do that I need to
connect my email address to Monday sales
CRM that way I can track all of my
communications and also conversations in
just one place up on top let's click on
these settings gear and right here you
see a category for my connections I'll
click on add account you can add either
a Gmail or an Outlook email address to
Monday sales CRM now right down below I
already have an existing account I'll
choose that and that's now been added up
on top I'll close out of this view back
now on the main table I want to reach
out to one of these leads to see if I
can qualify her right down here we have
lla and she reached out on our website
now I'll simply click on the lead and
that opens up more details right over
here I can see where she is currently in
the lead flow so right now she's just a
new lead I haven't even attempted to
contact her but that's about to change
so right down here let me click on new
email this opens up a new email message
over on the right hand side up on top
I'll type in the subject and down below
I'll type in the body text you can even
use AI to help compose your message I
think this text Will convert very well
however I think what would make it even
better is if I can personalize this
message for example if I called out
lyla's name right up here at the top
luckily I can use different fields or
columns from the table on the leads page
in this email message down below we have
the option for inserting columns I'll
click on that and here I see all the
different columns so for example if I
want to insert lyla's name I can click
on item name I can call out her company
name or maybe the comments that she
asked about I could insert all those
different fields into this email message
I just want to call out her name so I'll
click on item name and that inserts a
dynamic field at the top of the email
this pulse. name will be replaced by her
actual name that's the only column I
want to use so I'll close out of this
and right up on top I'll format it so it
looks good in the email message I can
Envision that I end up using this same
email message with all of the other
leads who reach out through the website
now luckily I could save this as a
template in the bottom right hand corner
we have the option for templates I'll
click on that and here I see that I
don't yet have any templates down at the
bottom I'll click on Save draft as new
template and here I'll give it a name I
would like to share it with everyone in
the organization I'll select everyone
and then click on Save I think this
email message now looks very good so in
the bottom left hand corner I'll click
on send now that I've sent the message
over here I can see that it hasn't been
opened yet and here I can review the
text of the email that I I sent to lla
hopefully she responds back positively
oop and look at that it looks like lla
has responded Yes I would love to
explore opening a franchise let's meet
this Outreach is off to a really good
start now although I reached out to yla
directly through Monday sales CRM I
could also email her directly through
Outlook and all of those Communications
will also be captured here so this is my
One-Stop shop for all Communications and
correspondence with my leads now because
she expressed interest I would say this
qualifies as being qualified so in the
top right hand corner I'll will click on
qualified and here we see the lead
pipeline update and here it also shows
the status as qualified over here I'll
click on this button to move her into
contacts in the top right hand corner
I'll now close out of this view by
clicking on the X back here on the main
leads screen if we look down at the
website group you'll notice that lla no
longer shows up down here and the reason
why is I've now moved her on to contact
if I click into contacts over on the
left hand side here we see lla now shows
up as a contact let's now go back to
leads that Outreach was so successful
that I think I should probably reach out
to all these different website leads to
do that I could simply click on all
these check boxes next to all of the
leads and down at the very bottom I have
the option to mass mail all of these
different contacts let's try that this
opens up a new email message and up on
top I can see that it'll be sent to the
four recipients that I just selected I
want to use the same email message that
I sent to Lyla and the good thing is I
saved that as a template in the bottom
right hand corner let's click on
templates and there's that template I'll
click on that and that fills in the
subject and the body of the email
message and right up here I can see that
Dynamic value that will autop populate
the name of the lead this now all looks
good so in the bottom left hand corner
let's click on send and just like that
it's now sent out a a personalized email
to every single one of my leads I can
click into any one of the leads and here
I can see a copy of the message here we
see the personalized name in the message
that was so easy right up on top I can
also check on the status it looks like
Owen hasn't opened this email yet
however I'm sure that once he does we'll
get a positive response in the top right
hand corner let's close out of this view
over on the left hand side let's now
click into the contacts board and here I
can see all the different primary
contacts we have quite a few people that
we're working with right here I see lla
Baker and this is the contact that I
just added over here I see that she's
not currently assigned to an account
I'll click on this and here I'll set it
to Universal cookies and I believe we
had a few other contacts who also work
for Universal cookies now over here I
could hover over any one of these
columns and here I can sort the list so
that's one way I could look at it but I
think probably what would be even easier
is if I filter this view right over here
I'll click on the three dots and here's
the option to filter I'll click on that
and let me filter by accounts and let's
set it to Universal cookies here I'll
click out of the filter and here yes I
see we have two contacts for this
company Ben and lla just like we saw
earlier with the leads board you can
also adjust these columns so over here I
can drag the column around and put it in
a position that I prefer also if we go
over to the right hand side I can add
additional columns to this view I'll
click on this button and here we have
all these other column types that I can
add here but for now I'm okay with the
default set of columns again you can
make this view your own without needing
to know any coding all you have to do is
point and click and you can customize
this over on the Le hand side I see that
Lyla currently is not associated with
any deals it looks like her cooworker
Ben is working on the New York Flagship
location now I could click on this to
add a deal directly within this View or
over on the left-and side we can click
into the deals board and this will show
me a comprehensive view of all deals
that we're working on let's click into
that this opens up the deals board and
here I can quickly see where all of our
different deals stand and look at that
we're planning on opening up lots of
different Flagship stores for the Kevin
Cookie Company lla mentioned that she
was interested in opening up a Los
Angeles flagship store to add a new deal
down at the bottom of this table I'll
click into here and let's type in Los
Angeles Flagship that looks good now I
need to assign an owner from the Kevin
Cookie Company to drive this deal
through to completion here I'll click on
this profile picture icon and I think
Nester would do a really good job he is
so solid at closing out these deals I
select him and right here I can also
choose the contact now I'm working with
lla on this from Universal cookies so
I'll select her that looks great I could
also select multiple contacts if let's
say multiple people from the customer
side we're working on this deal now
right over here I could also choose the
stage let's click on this this opens up
all the different default stages and
this works okay but in the cookie
industry we have slightly different
terminology the good thing is I can
customize all these stages to meet my
needs down at the bottom I'll click on
edit labels here I can now type in new
text for example instead of Discovery
this is really where we evaluate the
franchisee so I'll type in that text
right here also when we win a deal
that's really when we sign the franchise
agreement so there I'll type it in along
with changing the text I could also add
new stages or over here I could also
shift the order of these various stages
but I think for now this looks good so
down below I'll click on apply and right
here I can now select the stage now
right now we're evaluating whether lla
is a good match so I'll select
franchisee evaluation over on the right
hand ins side in the next column I can
also add a deal value now lla wants to
open up in a major metropolitan area and
we charge quite a bit for that so I'm
going to put down
$500,000 as the expected deal value now
just like we saw in some of the previous
views right up on top I can also add
additional columns and I would really
like to track when we expect some of
these deals to close over here we can
see all the different core columns and
here if I scroll down here's an option
for expected close date let me check
that box and now if I scroll over to the
right hand side here we see the expected
close date now for the Los Angeles
flagship store I think we can move on
this fairly quickly so let me put down
maybe early May on this keep in mind
that's really fast when your franchising
locations I also like that as the
expected close
date now I'm feeling really good about
these deals and I'd like to see how
we're looking for the year up on top
let's switch into the forecast view I'll
click on this this now drops me into the
forecast View and the beautiful thing
about one of these views is you can
completely customize it to match your
needs now currently I have two different
widgets included in this view one for
the monthly forecast and another one
showing me how we're performing against
the annual goal however I could also
include additional widgets right up on
top I can click on this add widget
button and here we see some of the most
common widgets that you might want to
include in your view but down here at
the very bottom you can also click on
more widgets and there is a massive
collection of different widgets that you
can use to customize your view for now
let's go up to the top right hand corner
and close out of this right down here I
have two existing widgets but you'll
notice that in this first widget it
doesn't currently show a monthly
forecast let's take a quick look at how
you can customize one of these widgets
in the top rightand corner I'll will
click on the three dots and here that
shows me more options and then let's
click into settings this now opens up
settings and over on the right hand side
I can select a chart type I think a bar
chart would work well so I'll click on
this one and then let's minimize this
category along with choosing the chart
type I could also Define what the xais
is or what the Y AIS is let's start with
the X I'll click on that and here I can
choose how I want to group the data I'll
group it by month down below I can also
choose what type of deals I want to show
now I want to show it by the expected
close date so I'll select that let's now
minimize this category and then go down
to Y and here I want to show the deal
value so I'll check this box and as soon
as I select that I can now visualize the
data over on the left hand side and
again this is pulling in data from that
table view or the main table but now I'm
seeing it in a visual way this is really
nice up in the top right hand corner
I'll will click on the X icon and here I
can now see my monthly forecast simply
by by clicking into this view up above
one of the nice things is here I can
also adjust how it appears within this
view so I can make it smaller or here I
can make it larger here I'll make it the
same size as the annual goal over on the
right hand side with the annual goal
here too I can also customize it I could
click on the three dots and here I could
go into the settings you could also
filter The View maybe you only want to
look at a subset of your deals you have
all these different options to filter
this visual but for now I'm happy with
the defaults and here I think it looks
really good we're already almost halfway
through to our annual goal of 10 million
we're making such good progress right up
on top I can also add additional views
here I can click on this plus icon to
add a view and here we see all sorts of
different boards that we can add down at
the very bottom I can also click into
more views and you'll see a massive
collection of different views that you
can add right up on top you can even add
a blank view so that way you can
completely customize it to your needs
right right up on top let's close out of
this let's now click into the pipeline
view up above I'll click on Pipeline and
this now shows me a visual view of how
all of our different deals are
progressing if you've ever used a con
Bon board before this is a very similar
view right down here I can see the Los
Angeles flagship store currently it sits
under franchisee evaluation however
nesser just let me know that we've been
making some progress we're currently in
the proposal stage I can click on one of
these cards and here I'll drag it over
to the proposal step and there we now
see it in this column here too with this
view you have all the same sorting and
also filtering mechanisms up above now
that we've been making some good
progress on these deals over on the
left-hand side let's shift back into the
contacts View and again this is where
you can see a comprehensive view of all
of your different contacts here's Lyla
Baker and one of the neat things is over
here under the deals column we see that
the Los Angeles Flagship automatically
shows up even though we added that deal
within the deals board and over here I
can even click on that deal and here I
can see all the details here I can even
see what stage we're currently in it's
currently in the proposal stage the
great thing is all of your different
boards automatically stay in sync so if
you make an update in deals it'll
automatically flow through to all of
these Associated boards I recently had a
phone call with lla and I want to make
sure to capture that activity that way
Nestor in the loop over here I'll click
on lla and right up on top here I can
click on this to add an activity I have
different options like a meeting or a
call or just a note and I could even add
custom activities I had a call so I'll
select this option and this opens up a
dialogue and I can now type in my notes
it sounds like we're getting really
close to signing that franchise
agreement down below I'll click on ADD
and then let's close out of this view to
get a view of all of the activities
across your entire sales team over on
the left hand side let's click into the
activities board and here this drops me
into a table view so here I can see that
it looks like Nestor has hosted a few
meetings and here I see that call that I
recently hosted with Laya Baker now just
like we've seen with all the other
tables here I could customize it I could
also add additional columns if I'd like
but I think this includes all the
information that I would like to track
right up on top we could also filter
this so let's say I want to see how
active I've been I'll click on person
select my photo and right here I can see
that I've had two recent calls right on
top I'll close out of this filter right
up on top we can also shift into
different views and again with a view
you can use all the data from the main
table in just a more visual way so right
here there's already a few included
widgets for example I can see a summary
of all the different activity types
across this sales team I can see how
many phone calls we've made how many
meetings we've hosted how many call
summaries have been entered in down
below here I could also see by month how
active the team has been and just like
we saw in the deals view I can
completely customize this view here I
could adjust the sizing and I could also
add additional widgets and I get the
full collection of different widgets so
again this view is yours to make your
own so that way it's valuable to you
with all of this activity going on I'm
fairly confident that we're going to be
closing some deals soon and ideally I
want the buildout team to be notified as
soon as we close one of these deals now
of course I could manually contact the
buildout team to let them know or I
could automate that over on the leftand
side let's click into deals and then at
the very top there's the option to
automate let's click on that within
automation you can automate all sorts of
different workflows over on the le- hand
side you'll see some of the top level
categories and Within These categories
you'll see some recipes that you can use
and you can even integrate with
third-party providers now I just need a
very basic recipe I'll go up to the top
under explore and right here when status
changes so when we close a deal I want
to notify the buildout team I think this
one will work perfectly over here I'll
click on use template this now opens up
a recipe that I can customize and again
I don't have to do any coding I'm simply
clicking my mouse so right up here I'll
click on these underlined words so when
status changes to something I'll click
on this and I wanted to notify someone
when the stage changes so I'll click on
stage and I need to Define what it
changes to so I'll click on this so when
it changes to franchisee agreement then
I want to notify the buildout team so
right here I'll click on notify and here
I could type in the message so right up
here hey Patty we just recently signed a
new franchise agreement and we need our
team to get ready to build out the new
location and right down here I can
include some of the details now just
like we saw in the mass email you can
insert Dynamic Fields that'll pull data
from that table so here I'll insert the
board name let's also put in the deal
value and also the expected close date
I'll select all of those this message
looks good so I'll click on done now I
need to Define who should be notified
I'll click on someone and over here
it'll be a guest we're going to go with
Patty she's one of our vendors who can
build this out now that I've entered in
all these different fields let's click
on create automation this is going to
make my life so much easier right down
below I can now see my new automation if
I want to edit it I simply click on it
again and over here I can see that it's
currently active again this way anytime
we sign that franchisee agreement our
buildout team will be immediately
notified right up in the top right hand
corner let's click on the X back now
within the deals view look at that it
looks like Nestor has already closed
this deal with lla he moves so fast I'll
click into this card and we need to make
sure that we now charge that franchise
fee right up on top one of the beautiful
things things is I can generate an
invoice directly within sales CRM I'll
click on this text and this opens up an
invoice and I can now use all the data
from that table directly in this invoice
for example here I can click on the
customer name and here I see the name
from the board or right over here I
could insert the phone number and I can
go through and insert all the different
information onto this invoice and then
over here I could download it once I'm
ready to send it to the customer for now
let's click out of this view to get a
full picture of what's going on in your
organization ation over on the left hand
side let's click into the sales
dashboard within the sales dashboard you
can customize this view to show you just
the information that you care about
right up on top you can have multiple
different boards feed into this
dashboard currently I have it set to
show the deals board but maybe you have
other workspaces and you want to
aggregate or consolidate all of that
information into One dashboard you can
do that here I'll close out right up on
top you can also add widgets and when I
click on that you'll see some example
widgets that you can add at the very
bottom we can also click on more widgets
and there are so many different options
of widgets that you can include on your
dashboard I'll close out of this once
you add a widget to your dashboard you
can customize what that widget shows
here you can click on the three dots go
to settings and here you could customize
as Jo account what columns how do you
want it to appear you have all these
different options I'll close out of this
now two of my favorite widgets here we
have the funnel chart and this shows how
all of our different deals are
progressing along all of the different
stages this way I can see how much
progress our team has been making here
if I go down to the sales pipeline just
a different visual of the same data you
can even drill down to look at these
specific data or tables behind the
visual here for example let's say I want
to see all of our completed deals simply
click on that and that opens up a drill
down View and here I see those two deals
that we've closed here I can exit the
drill down and close out of this if I go
down a little bit more one of my other
favorite views here is the leader board
here I see all the different members of
the sales team also how many deals
they've closed and the average deal size
with this sales dashboard I can organize
and position things how I would like for
example I can make this smaller I can
make it larger maybe I want to move it
up the page here I could drag it up and
keep in mind that I can build all of
this out without needing any development
help I can do all of this on my own to
give me the view that I need all right
well there you have it with Monday sales
CRM you'll be well equipped to manage
every part of your sales cycle all in
one place again to get started with
Monday sales CRM be sure to click on the
link down below and that'll give you an
extended free trial to watch more videos
like this one please consider
subscribing and I hope to see you in the
next
[Music]
video